# Short-Term Rental Housings Study During COVID: A Case Study of London AirBnB Visiting Pattern and Classification of High-Potential Listings

## Introduction

2020 has been an unexpected years for most business in world due to the outbreak
of Coronavirus (COVID-19). Lockdowns and fear to travel reduces the human
mobility to travel and people tended to work from home than travelling, which
are believed to dramatically impacted the short-let business model of AirBnB.
Moreover, Airbnb made a decision to allow guests to cancel bookings for trips
starting before 31 May 2020 with a full refund due to the coronavirus outbreak.

This report aims to understand the pattern of visitng frequency of London AirBnB
under the pandemic situation and to identify contributions of AirBnB features on
the business, and hence shed some light on the business development under
pandemic situation.

## Analytical Questions

How does the visiting pattern of London AirBnB change before and during the
pandemic period of COVID-19 temporally and spatially? Is there any association
between visiting pattern of London AirBnB with the COVID period? What are the
key AirBnB features that contribute to the difference in visiting frequency
among all London AirBnB listings?

## Define Study Period

UK announced its first lock down on March 23, ordering Brits to stay at home,
banned gatherings of more than two people, and closed all non-essential retail.
Nevertheless, cases of Covid-19 surge in the UK on 4 March, as officials
announce the biggest one-day increase so far as 34 cases bring the total to 87.
Boris Johnson also urged everybody in the UK to work from home and avoid pubs
and restaurants to give the NHS time to cope with the pandemic on 16 March,
which suggest UK business is being affected in an earlier date. Therefore,
COVID-period and pre-COVID period for comparison analysis are defined as
follows:

COVID-19 Period: March - Sep 2020 Pre-COVID-10 Period: March - Sep 2019

## Data Source

5 types of Dataset are used in this study:

2 Listing Dataset showing profiles of all London AirBnB listings from AirBnB,
updated by 13 Oct 2020 and by 15 Oct 2019 for comparison Number of COVID-19
cases in London by London borough, supplied by London Government at
https://data.london.gov.uk/dataset/coronavirus--covid-19--cases 20 Datasets
showing the future booking in calendar of AirBnB website as of the scrapped Date
Review Dataset showing all reviews per London AirBnB listing since 2010, updated
by 13 Oct 2020 Spatial Data of London Borough in shape file format Disclaimer &
License:

All AirBnB datasets are sourced from publicly available information from the
Airbnb site by Inside AirBnB and is open to analysis under a Creative Commons
CC0 1.0 Universal (CC0 1.0) "Public Domain Dedication" license. Details please
refer to http://insideairbnb.com/get-the-data.html , supplied by London
Government

## Remark
Details of project are covered in 